.\" man_1_simple_shell .
.\" Contact 1141@holbertonschool.com, 1192@holbertonschool.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "14 Nov 2019" "1.0" "man_1_simple_shell"
.SH NAME
man_1_simple_shell \- created by GIOVANNI PEREZ and ANDRES GARCIA
.SH SYNOPSIS
man_1_simple_shell
Description:
.SH DESCRIPTION
In computing, the shell or command interpreter or command interpreter is the computer program that provides a user interface to access the operating system services.
Bash is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes commands read from the standard input or from a file.
.SH INVOCATION:
If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error.
If any of the commands entered from the terminal do not exist, bash reports an error.
If any of the entered commands exist and can be read, bash executes the entered command followed by a new line.
When the project shell starts, bash reads and executes the command entered from ~ / bin /, if the files exist.
When a login shell exits, bash reads and executes commands from the ~ / .bash / files, if the files exist.

.SH DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are used in the rest of this document:

White:
A space or tabulation.

Word:
A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the shell. Also known as token.
name.

A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and underscores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an underscore. Also referred to as an identifier.

.SH THE COMMANDS EXECUTABLES IN THIS SHELL ARE:

/ bin: Basic (or binary) system executables, when, for example, we execute the cp command we actually execute / bin / cp.

ark: Shows the architecture of the computer.

cp: copy a file to another place.

gzip: compress / decompress

login: Log in as another user.

more: Shows a file little by little (like them).

rm: Delete files

sh, bash: Interpreters of commands.

ls: Shows the contents of a folder.

mount: Mount a device in a folder.

rmdir: Delete a folder

sleep: "Sleep" the system during the seconds you indicate.

touch: Change the time of last access and modification of a file, if it does not exist, create it.

cat: Shows the contents of a file.

date: Shows the system time.

echo: shows the content of variables or what you indicate.

kernelversion: shows the kernel version

ps: Shows user processes, with ps aux shows all.

chgrp: Change a file group.

grep: Shows lines following a pattern.

kill: "Kill" a process.

mkdir: Create a folder.

pwd: Shows the path of the folder where we are.

su: Change user temporarily.

umount: Disassemble a device.

chmod: Change the permissions of a file.

ln: Create a link between files or folders.

mv: Move a file.

Join me: System information.

chown: Change the user of a file.

dir: Similar to ls.

netstat: Network information
.
tar: Group files into a .tar

.SH EXAMPLE OF THE COMMAND

suppose that the following command is entered by keyboard: ls -l, The result when executing said command will be the all files and the current in directory.

.SH Exit Status
  0 if ok
  1 if error

.SH AUTHOR
ANDRES GARCIA and GIOVANNI PEREZ

.SH REPORTING BUGS
No known bugs.
If you discover any error, please send us the information about Giovanni Perez's email: 1192@holbertonschool.com, or Andres Garcia: 1141@holbertonschool.com

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright Â 2019Free Software created in Holberton School Medellin by Andres Garcia and Giovanni Perez, version of the Shell 1.0
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation at: DASH(1)
